this is a 1990 bentley turbo r
and it was the ultimate bentley back
when it was being made if you were rich
back in 1990 you bought a bentley turbo
r this car cost 200 000
back then which translates to about
380 000
today
and today i'm going to show you what you
got when you bought the ultimate bentley
30 years ago
[Music]
i've borrowed this turbo r from ws auto
sales which is located here in the san
diego area ws has some incredibly
interesting cars for instance this looks
like a normal 6 series but on closer
inspection well no it isn't oh and that
bmw x3 in the background was also a
manual if you want a rare quirky cheap
car ws auto sales is a good place to
find it you can check them out with the
link in the description below so let me
give you a little turbo r overview this
car was the ultimate bentley back in the
day the modern equivalent would be the
mulsanne the top of the bentley lineup
the turbo r came out in the mid 1980s
and it was sold all the way through
1999 when it was finally replaced by the
arnage now when this car was new bentley
also sold a base model of the turbo r it
was called the mulsanne originally and
then later the brooklyns but they were
slow the turbo r was the one to have it
had a 6.75 liter turbocharged v8 that
made about 300 horsepower and about 450
pound-feet of torque
amazingly this car
uses a general motors three-speed
automatic transmission bentley didn't
swap it out for a four-speed until
1992. these days you can pick up a turbo
are
cheap as i film this video there are
four listed for sale on autotrader all
are under 30 000 but that's typical of
what happens as bentley and rolls-royce
models get older and they become more
expensive and more difficult to maintain
but anyway today i'm going to take you
on a tour of the turbo r and show you
around the ultimate bentley of its day
first i'm going to show you all of the
interesting quirks and features of the
former flagship bentley and then i'm
going to get it out on the road and
drive it and then i'm going to give it a
dug score and for more of my thoughts on
the turbo are click the link below to
visit autotrader.com
oversteer
all right i'm going to start the quirks
and features of the turbo r with getting
in and that means talking about
this key fob you can see this car has a
remote which would have been unheard of
in 1990 but you press this large button
at the top and it locks and unlocks the
doors and it works perfectly i'm not
sure if this is factory or aftermarket
but i assume it's aftermarket it was a
common thing in the 90s to get an
aftermarket remote system to lock and
unlock your doors but either way this
car has it and that's how you unlock the
doors and now that we've got the door
open the interesting quirks really start
coming i'm going to start with this
little plaque in the door jamb you can
see it says bentley motors it's very
high quality almost looks silver no
purpose for it other than to make you
feel special but that's a preview of all
the luxury to come and next up a good
example of that luxury is on the door
panel you can see there's lots of
leather and wood trim my very favorite
trim on the door panel though is the
wood on the top you can see you have
wood trim and then around it there's a
different kind of wood trim so this car
is so luxurious that it has wood trim on
wood trim that's how you know you're in
a serious luxury car also on the door
panel you have another one of my
favorites that would be four unlabeled
switches these are your windows switches
of course the one closest to you that's
the driver's window the other ones
i don't really know some labels would be
nice and next up we move on to the
inside of the turbo r and the very first
thing you notice in here is that there
is leather and wood
everywhere on every surface everything
is either leather or wood all nicely
stitched and placed together this car
came from an era where luxury meant high
quality materials and craftsmanship and
not how much technology you could cram
into a car for a good example of just
how far bentley took the leather and
wood in this interior take a look at the
sun visor which is this beautiful
leather many modern luxury cars don't
bother making the sun visor leather
since it's not used all that often but
in this car they spared no expense the
crazy part is you drop the sun visor and
the mirror cover is wood they didn't
even go with plastic for that even that
little piece is wood but you'll notice
when you open the sun visor mirror that
the mirror light isn't turning on so
what's the deal is it broken
oh no that's another interesting quirk
of the turbo r to activate that light
there's a little switch in the center
console that says
mirror you press that and then the light
turns on and that's how you turn on your
sun visor mirror in the turbo r now
amazingly that switch to turn on the
mirror lights is not the craziest switch
in this center console area that honor
goes to this little button
with horn graphics on it what exactly
does that do
well this car has a dual note horn let
me show you what i mean activate the
horn and it sounds like this
but if you press that button in the
center console and then you activate the
horn it sounds like this
in other words this car gives you the
option of which horn sound you want i
was always told this was called a town
and country horn you have one louder
horn for the country for longer
distances and one quieter horn for when
you're in town
very unusual by modern standards and
speaking of that horn button in the
center console another interesting horn
related item is how you activate the
horn at all you have buttons on the
steering wheel and not just one or two
of them but rather four you have two
buttons at the top and then two more
buttons at the bottom so basically every
spoke of this steering wheel allowed you
to turn on the horn i guess this car is
perfect for drivers with road rage but
back to the center console and back to
those switches you use to turn on your
sun visor mirror lights if you look at
the switch over on the driver's side you
can see the lower half says mirror but
the upper half says roof so what exactly
is that well if you push it it will turn
on your interior ambient lighting that's
mounted on the ceiling not on the roof
as bentley says but rather on the
ceiling when you push that switch over
on the passenger side in the bottom it
says mirror on the top it says map if
you push map then that will turn on the
front map lights they're in the same
housing as the roof lights but you can
see they're more focused and kind of
pointed into your lap if you're in the
front seat which will help you read a
map and next up we're still not done in
this quirky center control area because
we gotta talk climate controls which are
wild okay you look in the center area
you see you have these two
blue
discs well these are actually dials one
is for the upper temperature the air
that comes out on the dashboard and one
is for the lower temperature the air
that comes out at your feet you move
these dials and you can see they move
from blue to white to red that's the air
temperature blue is cold air white is
middle and then red is hot air and
whatever you want the air temperature to
be at you just move the dial to your
desired setting very strange and next up
moving down from all those unusual
center controls you can see there are
two unlabeled chrome switches next to
the cigarette lighter one on the left
and one on the right so
what are those
that's the power mirror controls you
move this little switch on the left and
the driver side mirror moves accordingly
you move the switch on the right and the
passenger side mirror moves accordingly
every other car there's just one control
and you switch between left and right
this car has individual
mirror controls because that
is luxury and next up here's another
rather unusual quirk in the center you
can see there are a few gauges in the
middle of the dashboard and one of them
is the fuel gauge but if you look
closely at the fuel gauge you'll see
it says min oil on it so why does the
fuel gauge have an oil level mark well
it turns out if you press this little
oil lamp button in the center console
then for just a brief moment the fuel
gauge will display your oil level if you
let off this button then it goes back to
being a fuel gauge but that's how you
can also check your oil the fuel gauge
will temporarily double
as an oil gauge very unusual and next up
in the interior is the heated seats in
most cars there's just a button with a
picture of a seat on it and some lines
indicating heat in this there's an
entire control panel that says seat
heaters
to explain what it is and then you can
turn it from one to off to two using
these switches on the driver and
passenger side total overkill but heated
seats was a new thing and so maybe they
felt they had to explain it a little bit
more by the way next to those heated
seats take a look at the seat memory you
can see there are four different memory
settings for both driver and passenger
seats another example of a true luxury
item also another item worth noting in
this center area are the armrests you
had individual armrests for driver and
passenger so you didn't have to fight
over whether you wanted the armrest down
or not you could each choose now under
the armrest there's this keyhole and if
you try to pull it down you can see that
this is like a roll top storage cover
finished in leather of course and
underneath that you have a little
storage compartment which is nice and
you can lock it so it provides extra
locking interior storage of course that
center storage area is extra locking
storage because in this car you also
have the glove box which opens so
gracefully you just push this chrome
latch and then the lid kind of drops
down ever so nicely and you can see this
is your bentley glove box now also in
the glove box you have the owner's
manual which comes in this beautiful
leather pouch that has the bentley b on
it you open it up and it reveals quite a
bit of literature that this car comes
with there are a couple of interesting
items in here my very favorite is on
page 90 and 91 when it goes through
every single light bulb that is included
in this car and what you should be
changing it with my favorite types of
light bulbs well that would be special
bayonet of course there are quite a few
special bayonet bulbs in this car
although i must say i also love
the double-ended festoon
which is better the special bayonet or
and next up another unusual item
included in all the literature you have
the dealership guide that tells you
where all the bentley dealerships are
throughout the globe as of 1989 and
1990. now this was a rough period for
bentley globally they were not selling
many cars it was a tough sell compared
to other kind of more modern sportier
luxury vehicles so it was hard to get
dealers to accept bentley a good example
of that is in the united states of
america dealer listing in sacramento the
bentley dealer is listed as swift dodge
so there was a dodge bentley dealer back
in the day but that was probably the
only dealer bentley could get in that
area to sell their cars and next up we
move on to the back seat of the turbo r
and the very first thing you notice when
you open the door back here is this
floor mat it's had some years but you
can see it is a very thick fluffy floor
mat nice for sticking your feet on
instead of that crappy carpet that most
cars have in case the floor mat wasn't
enough you also have a foot rest back
here you can stick this foot rest
wherever you want to kind of improve the
positioning of your feet so they feel
perfectly luxurious just like everything
else and next up another fantastic
bentley luxury feature back here
is the tray tables they come out from
the backs of the front seats you pull
them down and then you have this
beautiful wood tray table that you can
use to eat your picnic as you're being
chauffeured along in the bentley and
next up another luxury touchback here is
that the doors contain an ashtray and a
cigarette lighter and it's not just in
one of the doors it's in both of the
doors so each rear passenger has an
equal chance to light their cigarette or
maybe more appropriately their cigar and
next up another luxury item in the back
seat is the center armrest you can see
it's this leather piece you pull it down
and then you can use it as an armrest
but the interesting part is that when
you pull the center armrest down this
like leather panel closes in behind it
to make sure there's no empty space that
doesn't have leather showing you have
leather
behind leather in the center armrest so
it always remains beautiful and another
good example of bentley making sure this
car always remains beautiful
is the seat belt buckles in every other
car the seat belt buckles just kind of
dangle around in the back seat but in
this car you can actually buckle the
seat belt buckle to a dummy seat belt in
order to get it up off the seat and make
it look nicer back here
then when you were ready to buckle your
actual seat belt you just unbuckled the
buckle and buckled it into your real
seat belt so there were extra dummy seat
belts hidden within the seats that
pulled the buckle off the seat to make
things look nicer back here and speaking
of things looking nice back here you
will always look nice if you ride in the
back of a turbo r
because there are mirrors if you look to
the left or right of each seat there is
a mirror there that allows you to make
sure you're looking your best and in
case you can't see yourself there's a
little switch next to the mirror that
lets you turn on a light one part of
that switch turns on the overhead light
and the other part turns on the map
light in case you want to read your map
everything very luxurious for 1990. and
next up we move around to the back of
the turbo r and i want to talk about the
trunk but first we have to cover just
getting into the trunk you come around
back here and you see no latch no
keyhole so how do you get in well it
turns out you go to the bentley logo
and you flip up the b and then you can
see hidden under there was a keyhole you
stick the key in and then you pull on
this little latch underneath the trunk
lid and then you pop open the trunk so
what's in the trunk of a bentley turbo r
well let's find out you open it up and
the answer is
trophies
lots of them now before you go thinking
this car has won a lot of awards
remember this car was made in 1990 so it
is a millennial and these are
participation trophies
no i'm just kidding this car has won a
lot of awards it's a really really nice
example of the turbo r so many of these
are in rough shape but this one isn't
and these trophies are a testament to
its quality now the other item worth
noting in the trunk here is that it is
quite large and quite flat you don't
have to deal with any wheel arches
intruding on the trunk you just have one
giant flat rectangular space in here
where you can put whatever you want and
one more interesting item worth noting
with the trunk is that on the trunk lid
itself
you have the brake lights take a look at
this you can see the brake lights are
going on and they light up on the trunk
lid and indeed the brake lights are
fully working this was all that would
light up when you put on the brakes now
this would no longer be allowed i've
mentioned many times government
regulations say that all brake lights
have to be on a fixed piece of body work
but that was not the role when this car
was built and so these brake lights are
on the movable trunk and next up moving
along to the outside of the turbo r i
want to talk wheels these wheels are so
perfect for this car the design yes but
also the fact that they are chromed
which was so popular at the time you
would have looked so rich driving around
in your white bentley with your chrome
wheels back when this car was new in the
early 90s now one interesting item with
these wheels you can see there are no
visible lug nuts in these wheels but
next to the bentley logo you have a
little circle with two dots in it these
cars came with a little key that you
would stick into those two dots then you
would turn it you could pull off the
little circle then you could pull off a
larger circle on the wheels and access
the lug nuts in order to change your
tire the theory was that concealing the
lug nuts made the car look just a little
bit more beautiful and next up a couple
of other notable items on the outside of
this car one is this chrome strip that
goes down the hood to give the car a
sense of class and luxury you can see
that there are a few inches between the
end of this chrome strip and the bentley
logo and instead of doing nothing about
that bentley puts a smaller chrome strip
here to continue the chrome line all the
way to the bentley logo that is a nice
piece of attention to detail and finally
we move under the hood in the turbo r
now to access the engine compartment
there's a little lever you pull in the
driver footwell like in a lot of cars
and then when you open up the hood you
can see it is front hinged so it opens
up backwards compared to most cars and
when you get under here you can see this
is a really cool look i love this
old-school bentley engine look now this
wasn't them trying to create an
old-school engine look it was just a
really old engine that they used for way
too long but i always loved how this
engine looked and i love the old bentley
font on the sides one item that is worth
noting in the engine bay if you look
closely at the labels you can see one of
them says rolls-royce on it it's hard to
imagine today but back in the 80s and
90s and earlier rolls-royce and bentley
were the same company before they split
off and volkswagen bought bentley and
bmw bought rolls-royce in fact there was
a rolls-royce version of this car the
silver spirit and the silver spur i
reviewed one of those a couple of years
ago and i will link that video in the
description below
but the rolls-royce was slow the only
way to get the turbo engine
was to get the bentley and that is
important and so those are the quirks
and features of the bentley turbo r
now it's time to get it out on the road
and see how it drives all right driving
the turbo r
now given the similarities and
appearance you may be wondering what
exactly was the difference between the
rolls-royce and the bentley from this
era the brand they didn't have enough
money to create two vehicles so they
created one and then they tried to
distinguish them by saying that the
rolls-royce was a car to be driven in
and the bentley was a car if you wanted
to drive yourself and you still hear
people say this this was a marketing
thing was it true well the answer was
initially no the cars were pretty much
identical the original bentley mulsanne
and the rolls-royce silver spur and
silver spirit it wasn't until they came
out with the turbo r
that it actually mattered because this
was finally some distinction from
rolls-royce there was no way to get this
turbo power plant if you got a roll so
how is it well i'm gonna floor it here
it's certainly faster than the rolls
there's no question about that but this
isn't exactly a fast car now back in
1990 nothing was a fast car a camry did
0-60 in 10 seconds back then so this was
considered pretty quick and pretty boss
back in the day
um one notable item though is that
bentley and rolls-royce refused to
publish horsepower numbers for these
cars uh
you know rolls-royce called them
sufficient
um but i think that also spoke to the
fact that they just weren't making that
much power and they didn't want to be
embarrassed but it isn't what anybody
would call fast today and that wasn't
really the point of this car anyway it
was developed as a big luxury cruiser
they just kind of threw more power in it
to make it a little bit more
sporty and you can tell that when you
when you go to steer
the car there's a ton of body roll
there's a ton of float um
it's just
it's not intended to be a performance or
a sporty car in any way it just happens
to be a rolls royce with more power and
a little bit more presence thanks to the
wheels and a few exterior bentley
touches the bentley was certainly the
better looking between the two in terms
of the ride comfort it is not as good as
the rolls royce no question about it um
this car is definitely stiffer that was
the intent uh but it didn't really help
much for the handling and sportiness so
really you just got kind of a
compromised car but like i said the
bentley was much better looking the
bentley was a little bit faster and
certainly in today's world the bentley
is the one to have the turbo rs are the
only ones that have any sort of value
from this era all the other bentleys and
rolls from the 80s and 90s are worthless
these pull a little bit more money
because they were kind of the pinnacle
and especially the later turbo rt models
are the very top of the top and
truthfully if you're not scared to keep
this thing running
um this is a pretty cool way to spend 20
25 30 000
15 18 i don't know what they go for it
still has so much presence but also you
just don't see these anymore there's
nothing like it on the road it's a
special car um and i think it's one of
them one of the cheapest special cars
that you can still roll up somewhere and
have people be like wow even though and
most new pickup trucks cost twice what
this does and so
that's the bentley turbo r
it's hard to believe that this was once
the ultimate bentley but indeed it was
the king of the hill
30 years ago all i can say is i'm glad i
live now and not 30 years ago anyway now
it's time to give the turbo r a doug
score starting with the weekend
categories and styling the turbo r looks
nice i like the appearance but very
1980s and it gets a 5 out of 10.
acceleration did 0 to 60 in a high 6
second range and gets a 2 out of 10.
handling is very average not good by
modern standards and it gets a 3 out of
10. fun factor is ok it's not very fast
or very sharp most of the fun comes from
driving a bentley and it gets a 4 out of
10. cool factor is about average it's
cool but not excessively so and it gets
a 5 out of 10 for a total weekend score
of 19 out of 50. next up are the daily
categories and features it's not
especially well equipped by today's
standards and it gets a 3 out of 10.
comfort is excellent though not quite as
good as the rolls-royce from this era
and it gets a 9 out of 10. quality is
fine the interior has nice materials but
reliability will surely be troublesome
and it gets a 6 out of 10. practicality
is average for a car like this and it
gets a 5 out of 10. finally value and
these are surprisingly cheap for what
they offer but they're also pricey to
own it gets a 6 out of 10 for a total
daily score of 29 out of 50. added up
and the doug score is 48 out of 100
which places it here against other 1980s
and early 90s luxury cars i've reviewed
the turbo r finishes ahead of the
rolls-royce silver spirit mainly due to
a higher weekend score but it can't beat
out the aston martin lagonda the quirky
1980s sedan champion
[Music]